%title(Generating Webpages With a Data Driven C API)
%date(2016,03,10)
%permalink(2016-03-10)

This site originialy used jekyll to generate a static site from markdown files; 
however, jekyll requires a large quantity of dependiecens and doesn't offer the flexibility I was looking for.
I decided to replace jekyll with a custom built tool for generating HTML within C++.  This allows any arbitrary
data source to be used in the HTML generation phase.  Requiring a plethora of external tools to generate html markup.  By providing a low level data driven
native interface for webpage generation, web content can be produced from any arbitrary data source in
a very flexible manner.  The native c interface induces more verbosity upfront but provides maximal
flexibility and customization power.

##Features
- Data driven C interface
- procedures for buffers and format text
- Markdown parser
- Cpp Syntax highlighting
- Custom markdown function extention

All procedures in the library have many convenience variants around the much more low-level c procedures
When using the preprocessor macro additional feature such as function overloading and default values
are provided to make programming with the library more convieant while still exposing the more low-level
calls.  This system allows for maximal flexibility such as generating entire post archives with less than
a dozen lines of code.  Most of the procedures in the site-generator are provide both a format version and a pointer and length 
version for maximal flexibility 

```
sg_fmt_h(1, "Heading %d: %s", 1, "Test");
sg_fmt_p("paragraph with %s", "stuff");
sg_fmt_a("%s.html", "my_page");

sg_fmt_set_next_class("my-div-num-%d", 9);
sg_fmt_set_next_id("id%d", 9);
sg_begin_div();
//...
sg_end_div();
```

Both `sg_fmt_set_next_class()` and `sg_fmt_set_next_id()` apply to **ALL** other procedures in the utility.  This 
allows a simple way to proceduraly set the classname and id of html elements.

##In Practice Examples

Here are some examples of the power and flexibility this tool provides for data-driven web development
This is the entire routine that generates the homepage of this blog

```
sg::set_output_directory("site");
sg::begin_document();
sg::add_stylesheet("style.css");
sg::fmt_h(1, "Current Posts");
foreach_file_in_directory("posts", [](FileInfo file_info) {
    char *file_data = read_file_into_memory(file_info.path);
    sg::begin_div("content");
    sg::markdown(file_data);
    sg::end_div();
});
sg::end_document();

```

This routine generates a responsive photogallery by simply iterating over photos in a directory

```
kate_wiebeltstuff

```
